---
title: UNBEATABLE
show_title: true
show_right_column: true
show_toc: true
description: UNBEATABLE personal thoughts
slug: 1768416125.md
date: 2026-01-14
book:
book_order:
draft: false
image: https://shared.fastly.steamstatic.com/store_item_assets/steam/apps/2240620/a3fe80f8848d0583be61f24292799e7f796e6319/header.jpg?t=1765403705
tags:
  - games
  - personal thoughts
  - steam deckable
categories:
    - games
references:
  - title: UNBEATABLE steam page
    url: https://store.steampowered.com/app/2240620/UNBEATABLE/
---

## 14-01-2026

It's a crazy game, needed some tinkering to run properly and sometimes give me the vibes that is broken even if it's not, the visuals and the story are blended together in a spectacular way, the world building is insane, and makes no sense, it's based around the fact that music is banned and no bands or concerts are allowed.

The main quest revolves around characters that aren't explained well no backstory, no silly details, the game goes to the point that is taking the player involved in an experience that is not the usual story driven game with walks and a ton of dialogues, but with a well mixed gameplay sequences.

Gameplay that is not crazy, i mean it's not a bad rhythm game but visuals can be messy sometimes and obscure the scene or in other situations where gameplay and dialogues are mixed together it's hard to follow them and don't lose the rhythm.

## 19-01-2026

Over with the game, it's a big adventure story about grief getting better, learn to leave things behind by accepting them, accepting what those things did to you, and that you need to accept the grief and the pain in order to evolve and surpass it.

I have to admit that not all of the game story and world context is clear to me, it seams like it was a Beatrice imagination where she get's through the grief of loosing is mother by getting on the adventure with clef treble and Quever, Quever it's a reflection of the Beatrice past that she has to overcome has she travel with them in this journey.

Maybe this lecture is influenced by my recent run on Expedition 33 and i didn't realize this.

I'm still convinced that the gameplay is screwed up, the controls with `d` and `f` on the keyboard are confusing to me especially when enemies come from 4 directions, and the part where Beat runs across the scene dodging attacks and jumping on rails are hard to understand and play correctly

The arcade is also a nice touch but not for me, i already said that i don't like the gameplay on only 2 keys.

Overall a god game with a solid experience, maybe i will revisited with a second run in the future playing the game in a single shot instead of multiple sessions.
