---
aliases:
  - /Red-Dead-Redemption-2
  - /1770134225
  - /games/1770134225
  - /games/Red-Dead-Redemption-2
backlog_statuses:
  - completed
book:
book_order:
categories:
  - "games"
date: 2026-02-03
description: Red Dead Redemption 2 notes
draft: false
finished: true
genres:
  - Shooter
  - Role-playing (RPG)
  - Adventure
igdb_id: 25076
image: "https://shared.fastly.steamstatic.com/store_item_assets/steam/apps/1174180/header.jpg?t=1759502961"
references:
  - title: Read Dead Redemption 2 steam page
    url: https://store.steampowered.com/app/1174180/Red_Dead_Redemption_2/
show_image: true
show_right_column: true
show_title: true
show_toc: true
slug: 1770134225.md
tags:
title: Red Dead Redemption 2
---

## 21-01-2026

I'm already at half story cause the game has capture me, it's visually stunning with some incredible views of the far west, the characters seem real and the game does an incredible job at making the player feel hunted, out of place and inside a world that does not accept the gang lifestyle anymore.

The gameplay is immersive, the shooting it's fun, nothing special but gets the job done.

The narrative is the real winner here, Dutch van der linde it's an incredible character with an incredible development that shows what a man can become when everything tries to test him and it's ideals

The characters are in an horrible situation, followed by the law they are constantly threatened.

Dutch wife has been killed by the Gang after they sold them to the pinkertons and ruined the bank robbery, this episode put dutch in an deeply dark place. And Arthur it's questioning his choices and his leadership

## 14-02-2026

Arthur is dead, Micah was the spy and the story starts over with the new life of Jhon and is family, Dutch has gone mad after being manipulated by Micah and the story drives you along his madness building a crescendo that culminates with Arthur death. Arthur embodies the meaning of the story, redemption.

## 21-02-2026

Completed the epilogue of the main quest, Arthur is avenged and Abigale has decided to marry Jhon, Dutch has decided to kill Micah.
The game is an incredible mixture of gameplay and story telling, with a lot of meaningful content to enjoy. I decided to focus on the main storyline but the few side quests that i decided to take on where full of incredible characters and an interesting take on the world that is represented.
Dutch seems an unfinished character, it's not clear to me his final decision and the look that gives to Jhon after shooting Micah, maybe it will be explained in the first game.
It's a deep game that wants to tell you a story, of mans following ideals in a world that wants to kill those ideals.
