
## in which part of the crisp methodology we perform the test design activity?

- Data Understanding
- Evaluation
- Business Understanding
- **Modeling**

## talking about the general idea of database, what is the purpose of the "schema on write" strategy? scegli una o più alternative:

- **Optimization for specific types of queries**
- **Clean design of the data structure**
- Avoid preprocessing of data before writing
- Flexibility and efficiency for any kind of query

## talking about the general idea of database, what is the meaning of "schema on write"? scegli un'alternativa:

- Create a schema for data after writing into the database
- Create a schema for data while writing into the database
- Change the schema of the data after each write
- **Create a schema for data before writing into the database**

## talking about the general idea of database, what is the purpose of the "schema on read" strategy? scegli una o più alternative:

- **Avoid preprocessing of data before writing**
- Optimization for various types of queries
- **Possibility to extract data in various shapes**
- **Flexibility for any kind of query**

## talking about the general idea of database, what is the meaning of "schema on read"? scegli un'alternativa:

- **Write the raw data in the database, then at reading time shape then according to the reader's needs**
- **Create a schema for data after reading them from the database**
- Read the schema of the data before each data read
- Change the schema Of the data before each read

## which of the definition below describes the olap operation roll-up? scegli un'alternativa:

- Reduces data aggregation and adds a detail level to a hierarchy
- Changes the layout, in order to analyse a group of data from a different viewpoint
- Reduces the number of cube dimensions after setting one of the dimensions to a specific value
- Creates a link between concepts in interrelated cubes, to compare them
- **Causes an increase in data aggregation and removes a detail level in a hierarchy**

## which of the definition below describes the olap operation pivot? scegli un'alternativa:

- Causes an increase in data aggregation and removes a detail level in a hierarchy
- Reduces data aggregation and adds a detail level to a hierarchy
- **Changes the layout, in order to analyse a group of data from a different viewpoint**
- Creates a link between concepts in interrelated cubes, to compare them
- Reduces the number of cube dimensions after setting one of the dimensions to a specific value

## which of the definition below describes the olap operation drill-down? scegli un'alternativa:

- **Reduces data aggregation and adds a detail level to a hierarchy**
- Creates a link between concepts in interrelated cubes, to compare them
- Changes the layout, in order to analyse a group of data from a different viewpoint
- Causes an increase in data aggregation and removes a detail level in a hierarchy
- Reduces the number of cube dimensions after setting one of the dimensions to a specific value

## talking about etl, which of the following activities is related to the transformation step? scegli una o più alternative:

- Usage of dictionaries to solve inconsistencies
- Snapshot of the operational data
- **Denormalisation**
- **Calculation of derived data**

## talking about etl, which of the following activities is related to the cleansing step? scegli una o più alternative:

- **Elimination of duplicates**
- Association of a timestamp to the operational data
- **Usage of dictionaries to solve inconsistencies**
- Snapshot of the operational data

## talking about etl, which of the following activities is related to the extraction step? scegli una o più alternative:

- Elimination Of duplicates
- **Snapshot of the operational data**
- **Association of a timestamp to the operational data**
- Usage Of dictionaries to solve inconsistencies

## order the etl operations in order to obtain the correct sequence

- 1. Cleansing
- 2. Transformation
- 3. Extraction
- 4. Loading

 Order: 3-1-2-4

## which of the texts describes the dfm schema below? scegli un'alternativa:

- **We need to track the purchases with credit cards. Each purchase has an amount, an exchange and a credit limit. The purchases are done in a date and in a store of a given type; stores have also a country and an area. Purchases have a card type (e.g. credit or debit## and a card name (e.g. MyCard or JeansCard##. Card types have also an issuing bank and a country.**
- We need to track the purchases with credit cards. Each purchase has an amount, an exchange and a credit limit. The purchases are done in a date and in a store of a given type and country; stores have also an area. Purchases have a card name (e.g. MyCard or JeansCard##t card_names have a card type (e.g. credit or debit##. Card types have also an issuing bank and a country.
- We need to track the purchases with credit cards. Each purchase has an amount, an exchange and a credit limit. The purchases are done in a date and in a store of a given type; stores types have also a country and an area. Purchases have a card type (e.g. credit or debit## and a card name (e.g. MyCard or JeansCard##. Card names have also an issuing bank and a country.

## which of the following are typical data warehouse queries? scegli una o più alternative:

- **Which products maximize the profit?**
- Which is the stock of product "XXX" in the "YYY" warehouse
- What is the total revenue of yesterday in shop "B003" ?
- **What is the total revenue per product category and state?**
- **What is the relationship between profits gained by products "WWW" and "ZZZ"?**

## select the sentences describing a characteristic of a data warehouse scegli una o più alternative:

- **Solves the inconsistencies**
- **Non volatile**
- **Includes the time dimension**
- Constantly updated as soon as the base data are updated
- Includes all the base data in their native format

## associate the various data warehouse architectures to the respective advantages

- 1. Single Layer: c. The occupation of space is minimised
- 2. Two Layers: a. The workloads for analysis and daily operations are separated
- 3. Three Layers: b. An intermediate level of consolidated data is available

## which of the activities below is part of "business understanding" in the crisp methodology?

- Which data are available?
- Which machine learning functions are necessary for my problem?
- Which data must be collected with a specific campaign?
- **Which are the resources available (manpower. hardware, software,...)**

## rank the technologies for increasing level of abstraction: 1 = generate the most specific information, ... 3 = higher level knowledge

- SQL queries on operational databases → 1
- Data Mining on operational databases → 3
- OLAP analysis on Data Mart → 2

## which of the following sentences describes an advantage of a data warehouse with respect to a standard dbms scegli una o più alternative:

- Allows efficient execution of key-based queries
- Manages efficiently data updates
- **Has tools for helping to solve inconsistencies**
- **Allows analysis along the time dimension**
- **Allows efficient execution of multi-dimensional queries**

## link the names of the olap operations below to their definitions

- Slice dice → 2. Reduces the number of cube dimensions after setting one of the dimensions to a specific value
- Drill across → 1. Creates a link between concepts in interrelated cubes, in order to compare them
- Pivot → 5. Changes the layout, in order to analyse a group of data from a different viewpoint
- Drill down → 4. Reduces data aggregation and adds a detail level to a hierarchy
- Roll-up → 3. Causes an increase in data aggregation and removes a detail level in a hierarchy

## what is data ingestion?

- **A process that copies data from sources to a repository, taking care of possible differences in speed between the generation and the storing process**
- A process that copies data from sources to a repository, ensuring high data quality
- A process that copies data from sources to a repository, making the transformation required by the users
- A process that copies data from sources to a Data Warehouse guaranteeing the correctness of data with respect to the schema

## check the features of data lakes in comparison with data warehouses, multiple answers allowed. selecting a wrong option will be penalised.

- **Can run on less expensive HW/SW**
- **Do not enforce data quality**
- More complex management
- Completely defined use cases

## check the main objectives pursued when choosing a data lake architecture

- **Store the data directly from the sources, as they are; the most appropriate structure will be decided later, according to the user needs**
- The data must be accurately structured, in order to provide fast answers to complex queries
- **The storage must be scalable and cheap, at the expenses of latency**
- Ensure high quality of data through an accurate cleaning and transformation step
